# cis-1051-final-project

"""During the initial phase of this project, the first difficulty we faced was that we didn't know how to use unity. We had heard about how it was a very good free software, so we decided to try it. There wasn't any shortcuts to overcoming this difficulty other than to just use the software, so we ended up watching Youtube guides that explains how Unity works and we just played around with it until we are familiarized with it. The second difficulty we experienced in the beginning this project was that we didn't actually know how to code in C#, so we also had to learn that from scratch. However in this case the real problem we had was just learning the syntax as we believe that most of the basics was already understood from our time learning Python. So in general we also just watched Youtube guides on how syntax works within C# and just coded along to what we wanted to make. During the making of this project, some of the first issues we experienced was learning how to communicate gameobjects with other gameobjects using scripts as this was still a very foreign concept to us. We also faced issues trying to make a healthbar due to the way we created our health system. We made a universal health system for every mob including the player, so when we tried to create the health bar, we had to be able to access this script. However when we do put it into the code it will affect every mob, but we are only need to make the health bar for the player. We also ran into the problem of assigning data to a prefab. The issue with prefab was that since they don't actually exist within the game when we call it. Assigning data to them using gameobjects that does exist creates a problem. We was able to solve this issue by making multiple "Scriptable Object" which are essentially just a gameobject that only stores data. Most of the difficulties we faced was just code efficency and system design efficiency as many of the code we wrote ended up conflicting with other codes when we try to connect everything. So I guess overall we learned quite a lot. Although this isn't  making a game from scratch as Unity is a very strong game engine, we was still able to learn how to make a game from Unity and C#. I think the main thing we learned was how different programming language compare as most of them are very similar in terms of the problem solving and logic. The main difference they have however is syntax. I think both of us are able to agree on that learning during this project was what we enjoyed the most because it helps us understand things we might not have previously understood and potentially sparking an interest in game development. We also learned how to create sprites and UI designs, since we made our own. So overall I think this was a very good experience, however we wasn't really able to make the game to match our imagination as we are still very new to coding. We are looking forward to continue working on this project and have a more complex system as we would be able to play this ourselves."""


final project video url: https://youtu.be/-vi9KCc5pJQ 
